Did you know that in the Bible, Jehovah accretets just two of his worshipers as having integrity?
David and Job.
Regarding David at 1 Kings 9-4, Jehovah told Solomon,
"'Walk before me as your father David walked with integrity of heart.'"
And twice when speaking of Satan, Jehovah said of Job,
"'There is no one like him on the earth. He is an upright man of integrity.'"
Of course, the Bible is filled with other examples of men and women who had similar reputations.
We can think of Abraham, Daniel and his three companions,
and all the ones that Paul listed in Hebrews chapter 11, those are just a few,
and of course, the finest example of all is Jesus Christ.
Clearly, Jehovah takes note of, values, and loves people with integrity,
which is a quality that every faithful servant of God needs.
But exactly what is that quality?
Well, integrity is moral soundness, and unswerving devotion to righteousness.
Having integrity means having strong ethical and moral principles,
and following those principles at all times.
We could say that such people do the right thing, even when that is not easy,
and no one is watching.
In fact, integrity is most evident when a person's devotion is under test,
and he is pressured to abandon the right course.
Now, how does a person develop integrity?
Well, it all starts with defining one's core values.
That is, the values that no matter what the consequences,
we are not going to compromise them.
And in this job is an excellent example.
What were his core values?
Well, we don't have to wonder, turn to Job chapter 1 verse 1.
It says, there was a man in the land of us whose name was Job.
He was an upright man of integrity.
He feared God and shunned what was bad.
Those were Job's core values.
He had a reverent, deep respect for Jehovah,
and a wholesome dread of disobeying him.
And that was right in line with what Solomon wrote hundreds of years later
in Ecclesiastes chapter 12 verse 13, if you'd like to look at that.
Ecclesiastes 12, 13.
The conclusion of the matter, everything having been heard is fear the true God
and keep his commandments, for this is the whole obligation of man.
Or as a modern paraphrase puts it, fear God, duty tells you.
In the text comments for today, the Watchtower states,
for servants of Jehovah, the key to integrity is love for God.
And it adds that along with that must be our loyal devotion to him
as our Heavenly Father.
Humans show integrity when they are so completely devoted to God
that they continue to do his will when facing hardship.
Why even in his worst moment, Job refused to turn against God,
and that is why he said, until I die, I will not renounce my integrity.
Each of us has the responsibility and the privilege, just like Job,
to demonstrate that we serve and obey Jehovah because we love him.
Interestingly, in Job chapter 31, Job lists about a dozen real-life examples
that if they had been true of him, would have exposed a lack of integrity on his part.
Let's look at just a few of these, and in doing so, it can help us to see what we can do
to keep our integrity.
Starting with verse 9 of Job 31, he said,
if my heart has been enticed by a woman.
In verse 11, he said, that would be shameful conduct,
an error deserving judgment by the judges.
We know Job kept himself clean from immorality
because in verse 1 of that same chapter, he said he had made a covenant
with his eyes not to show improper attention to another woman.
So he not only avoided committing adultery,
but he had not even taken the first step toward that sin by looking lustfully at other women.
So people of integrity, a polled Jehovah's standard of morality, and the sanctity of marriage.
Another example is in verse 16, he said,
if I refuse to give the poor what they desired.
And in verse 17, he included the need to share his food with the orphans.
Well, we know Job was generous to the poor in needy
because at Job 2912, he said he would rescue the poor,
the fatherless child, and anyone who had no helper.
So people of integrity value others and help those who are in need,
and they look after orphans and widows.
Another example, verse 24, he said, if I put my confidence in gold,
Job was wealthy at the start, but he was not greedily materialistic.
And when he lost all his wealth, he accepted the fact that as he said,
naked, he came out of his mother's womb, and naked, he would return.
So people of integrity did not put their trust in material things.
They put the kingdom first in their life.
One more example, verse 33, he said,
Have I ever tried to cover over my transgressions?
In Job 1323, Job asked for his sins and transgressions to be revealed.
And in the end, he accepted reproof for his being too quick to declare himself righteous.
And after Elihu and Jehovah both chastened Job,
he repented in dust and ashes.
So people of integrity are quick to own up to their own mistakes and accept correction.
Surely Job was a model of integrity.
Did you know that he requested that a written record be made of his suffering and endurance?
He did, if you turn to Job chapter 19,
Job 19, starting with verse 23, he said,
If only my words were written down, if only they could be inscribed in a book,
all that they were carved forever in the rock with an iron stylus and lead.
How thankful we are that Job agreed to make a permanent record of Job's integrity
keeping course and that he put it in the Bible and did not have it chiseled on some rock
in the middle of Arabia where Job lived.
Can you sum up the story of Job in one sentence?
Well, one Bible commentary does quite well by stating,
the beauty of the book of Job is of a living, breathing soul encompassed by sorrows,
surrounded by misunderstanding, but unconquered, humbled, and finally satisfied in God.
Through Job's life, we learn that no matter what trials we may encounter,
having a close relationship with Jehovah and staying true to our core values will enable us to
maintain our integrity and that when we are tested, God will support us just as He did Job.
Psalm 8411 says, Jehovah will not hold back anything good from those walking in integrity.
When we show our complete wholehearted devotion to God by obeying Him and doing what is right in His eyes
in our everyday lives, even when facing hardships, we will surely make Jehovah happy
and frustrate His enemy Satan just as Job did so long ago.